+++
title = "Element-by-Element Demand-to-Capacity Ratio Estimation from SMRF Building Seismic Records"
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date (not talk date).

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Milad Roohi"]

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2017-07-01T13:00:00
time_end = 2017-07-01T15:00:00
all_day = false

# Location of event.
location = "University of California San Diego (UCSD), California, USA"

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "7th International Conference on Experimental Vibration Analysis for Civil En- gineering Structures"
event_url = "https://example.org"

# Abstract. What's your talk about?
abstract = "The analysis of vibrations measured in instrumented buildings provides a unique opportunity for structural engineers to validate assumptions and analysis methods. However the typical level of instrumentation is not enough to obtain all quantities of interest. Even if large financial resources were committed for building instrumentation, some quantities of interest would still remain unmeasurable, such as inter-story shear, overturning moments, etc. This paper presents an algorithm capable of combining building seismic records and a model of the structure in order to estimate the complete dynamic response of all the members of the structure. This, combined with estimates of the structural capacity obtained from structural drawings and design codes, allows for an element-by-element estimation of the demand-to-capacity ratios. This information can be useful in a variety of applications including post-earthquake condition assessment and code validation. The proposed methodology is implemented on a six-story welded steel moment-resisting frame instrumented by California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program (CSMIP station 24370). For this study records from the 1994 Northridge earthquake were considered. In the verification step, a 3D model of the building is used as a surrogate and simulated data is generated by subjecting the model to the measured ground motion. The model response is used as the “real response”. The proposed state observer is implemented using a 2D OpenSEES model of the building. We compared the observer estimetes with the simulated building response and demands for beams and columns at every floor were determined. The proposed observer provides good tracking capabilities and estimation errors in demand-to-capacity ratios are less than 5% in every member considered. In the validation case, we used measured data from the instrumented building as feedback to the state observer. The state observer was implemented using the same 2D OpenSEES model as in the verification case. Demand estimates were computed for all columns and beams in the perimetral moment resisting frame. It was found that for columns the maximum demand-to-capacity ratio was 0.75, while for beams it was 0.85."

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
summary = ""

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured = false

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Markdown Slides (optional).
#   Associate this talk with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = "example-slides"

# Optional filename of your slides within your talk folder or a URL.
url_slides = ""

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["internal-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/bzdhc5b3Bxs)"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = "Right"
+++

{{% alert note %}}
Click on the **Slides** button above to view the built-in slides feature.
{{% /alert %}}

Slides can be added in a few ways:

- **Create** slides using Academic's *Slides* feature and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Upload** an existing slide deck to `static/` and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Embed** your slides (e.g. Google Slides) or presentation video on this page using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/).

Further talk details can easily be added to this page using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
